So, labels are really interesting,
again easy but big impact.
So, form fields are an area where I see
accessibility problems all the time,
they can be really confusing for
screen reader users.
And there's a lot of different ways
that we can fix this, which is cool.
So, this is a pattern that I see very
often in HTML, I'll see a form and
it got some inputs and a submit.
But it is labeled by these
paragraph tags and so for
sighted users this looks pretty good
to me I mean, I'm not a designer,
it's not very beautiful but you know first
name and you put in your first name,
last name, you put in your last name,
put in a password and then hit submit.
So the problem again, if we go ahead and
we open up the screen reader again.
All right, So
here's voiceover [INAUDIBLE] And
we start tabbing through you can see what
it's reading is just edit text blank,
edit text blank, secure edit text blank.
So, I have no idea what it is that I'm
supposed to be putting into these form
fields and it becomes very
difficult if not impossible to use.
And so instead of using these paragraph
tags, HTML provides these label tags and
these will fix the problem immediately for
us.
So, you can give your inputs and
ID and then you can use label and
has this four attribute and
you put in the same ID.
And so this form will look Identical
first name, last name, password.
But again, if we were to go ahead and
use the screen reader now,
it will [LAUGH] I guess
it didn't get actually.
If we go ahead and use the screen reader
now, It will actually go through and
read out the main tab through here.
So, this is the one that's visual only
edit text blank, edit text blank,
edit text blank and
then we go to these ones with the labels.
And now the labels are saying first name,
edit text, last name, edit text,
password, secure edit text.
And so you can see just moving from
those paragraph tabs to the labels fixes
this immediately.
Labels also are kinda cool because they
can be used explicitly, which is this for
attribute or they can be used implicitly,
which is to say they can wrap an input and
they'll automatically be assigned to it.
So, you can have like an empty label
tag with any text you want in here and
then the input inside, so these are
totally equivalent as far as how they'll
read for screen readers, so
whatever your style preferences there.
So, label tags perfect for
almost everything.
There's one exception which is that,
there are only certain elements that can
be labelled, so like buttons, inputs,
meters, outputs, all these things.
If you ever run into a situation where you
need something labeled that is not one of
these elements for any reason,
this is where Arial comes in.
And so, I have a whole section on Arial
later but just for now, know that Aria has
this Aria label property which can be
added to any element, div, span paragraph,
images, anything and this will
give it a label div aria label and
then the screen reader will read
out that label when that has focus.
So for the most part, labels are perfect,
they do kinda everything you would need to
in certain situations like complex apps or
whatever.
If you end up with a div or
h1 or you have something like that needs
a label, always use Arial label for that.
Should a label exist but be visually
hidden if there's no reason to see it?
Absolutely.
And this comes up a lot with designs,
right?
Like a form with placeholders in them and
no labels on them.
But you know for
accessibility that you need a label, so
that a screen reader reads it,
absolutely, that's the way to do it.
Add labels,
give them a class of visually hidden which
are gonna look at in the next section, and
then it'll be hidden from the screen but
they'll show up on screen later.
That's a great question.
>> Also, if the input is a child of
the label, is four still required?
>> It is not, no if the input is a child
of the label, you don't need four at all.
So, you can just do these blank labels,
any text and then this doesn't actually
even need the ID, it could just be
an input type text at this point.
So yeah, no, for if you wrap it, if you
don't wrap it then you wanna do the four.
When are Arial labelled elements
read by screen readers?
So that is tricky because in
our div example, this is great,
it has a label except divs
aren't read by screen readers,
right, because they are not
something read out loud.
So, if in these situations
it would really be and
we'll get into it in the next section.
But if you take an element and you add
the ability for it to be focused, like for
a good example would be like, have you
ever seen those sites where you can link
directly to one of the h2 or h3,
so you can like a blog posts but
a certain section of the blog
posts that you want to link to?
So they do that by allowing you to
focus on the h2 h3, h4, whatever,
which normally you aren't
able to focus those.
So in that sense, when it's focusable,
which we'll get into the tab index,
that's when you would add a label to it,
otherwise you're right,
it won't read the label because
you can't ever focus that item.
Cool, so yeah, this is something that
we've talked about a little bit already.
Sometimes you just need to
communicate with a screen reader and
you don't want it to show
up on the actual website.
And so the way that we do that there's
a number of ways you can do it in CSS but
the idea is that you add
a visually hidden class.
And so, this one just absolutely
position something and
then sends it off the screen
is simply all that it does.
I think I got this one
from Twitter Bootstrap.
But there's a number of ways you can do it
but I would recommend in your code base,
just adding a shared class for visually
hidden and then putting it anywhere.
So an anecdote that I like here, and
I mentioned it a little bit earlier.
So when I was at Twitter, we came up with
all these great keyboard shortcuts like
two key character shortcuts for like, make
a new tweet or reply or follow a user or
search something like that.
And then we're like well, how do we
surface all these great shortcuts, right?
Like, it's cool that we have them,
but how do we let users know?
And so our accessibility lead, he came up
with this really clever thing where he
took a div and he put some text in it and
said, hey, we have all these great
keyboard shortcuts, if you wanna check
them out, hit the question mark button.
And he added a class of
visually hidden to that div and
then he used JavaScript to prepend that
div to the entire document on twitter.com.
So, when you very first hit twitter.com,
the first thing that a screen
reader would see was this thing.
So, it had the experience of the screen
reader was like being communicated with,
right, like you would load twitter.com,
you would never see this thing.
But if you loaded it with a screen reader
before it even read like the home nav,
it would say, hey, if you're using
a screen reader, check out this thing,
hit question mark, and we'll show you
all these cool keyboard shortcuts.
So, there's some kind of neat ways that
you can think about making some content
making a visually hidden, sticking in
at the beginning of the document and
then you have a way of communicating
directly with screen reader users and
non screen reader users will never see it